# etch-a-sketch
This was a very amazing project! For the first three hours, I tried to simply create the grid shape. I was getting ahead of myself... but then I re-read the instructions and started again. By simplifying the project and taking it step by step, each piece fell into exactly the right spot. From this project I learned the true power of DOM manipulation. Starting out with a very basic HTML file, I added elements based on user input, and manipulated these inputs through JavaScript. Each step was a building block. I first created a 2x2 grid; then a 16x16. I then attempted the hover function. Taking advantage of event delegation, I set an event listener only on the parent div. From this, I was able to update each div if the user entered its content area with the mouse. Once the mouse entered a div, I used Javascript to change the color to black. Next, I allowed the user to decide how many squares would make up the grid. Again through JavaScript, i used variables to aid in changing the DOM. After I completed these necessary parts of the assignment, I attempted the extra credit. I did not find these too cumbersome, and implementing both. Now, once the mouse enters a div, the div's opacity changes by .10 every time, and, on the first enter, the div's color is set to a random RGB color. I even added two more elements to my Etch-a-Sketch: (1) Allowing users to delete parts of their drawing, and (2) Allowing users to color in previously deleted squares. I created two extra buttons in my HTML, and made them visible only after the user creates a grid. Once a user presses the delete button, a boolean value is switched to true. Using the same mouse movements, now, when a user moves the mouse over a square, the opacity and color of the square are reset to zero. Then, once the user clicks the pen button, the user can recolor these squares, as if they never had any color or opacity.
In the end, this project pushed me to improve in all aspects of code. With this project, I felt a great sense of achievement. Also, I know this project elevated my knowledge and appreciation of JavaScript, especially in DOM Manipulation. In regards to problem solving, this project showed me the power of taking a large tasks like the 16x16 grid, and solving it piece by piece, starting with a smaller, simpler solution- a 2x2 grid in my case. So, this project pushed me to excel, allowed me to improve, and, in the end, put me one step closer to my goal.